this is my attempt to do a short video
that's actually short it's a strange
irony of my life that just a few months
ago or some number of weeks ago a guy
named Joe vegan was actively denouncing
me and defaming me because he felt that
my fundraiser was not legitimate or not
legitimate enough by his standards the
Joe vegan is a guy I had email with I
talked to on skype once and who I
offered to speak to again I invited him
to come on this channel over a period of
many months when we had no conflict
between us partly because I wanted him
to defend his proposal for opening an
animal sanctuary okay now as time
progressed Joe's relationship with me
disintegrated because I felt he was
actively lying about me and defaming me
in a way that really harmed me um
because I had my own fundraiser and I
took those funds and I directly paid a
lawyer as part of a drama the most of
you already know about and I don't need
to summarize and the court case is still
ongoing providing you with hours and
hours of entertainment and many
wonderful phone calls with my lawyer and
believe me if you thought this court
case was looking to be wrapped up in
only three months I'm pretty sure my
lawyer thought that too so I got a great
price on a very fine international law
firm in Thailand who's done a lot of
work for me and I think they're still
gonna be doing work for me for many
months in 2017 I'm sure they're not
happy but I'm not happy where either but
that's another story so Joe vegans
relationship with me presta those stages
and then turned a corner when he had
some kind of psychological breakdown
midlife crisis he lost faith in his own
project what he was doing on his channel
he's out to never again do vegan drama
and he reinvented himself with the
bright bold new idea of filming himself
eating lunch and talking about what he
eats in a day he basically went back to
doing what ninety-nine percent of people
and vegan YouTube do and he lost I don't
know fifty percent of his audience wild
guess okay but one of the oddities is
that throughout these sequent
transformations Joe vegan has
nevertheless continued to prepare
owned and promote this vision that in
the immediate future like within the
next year he's gonna be opening an
animal sanctuary he's asking you for
donations for him to open and operate
his own animal sanctuary and when I just
now asked my own small audience here
live streaming does anyone believe
within the next 12 months this guy is
actually moving to Portugal this guy is
actually opening his own animal
sanctuary nobody believed it okay
there's one guy who said yes he does
believe that Joe vegans going to do it
he believes Joe vegans going to try and
Jovians gonna fail okay from my
perspective at no point has Joe given us
a convincing feasibility study
suggesting he can actually do this and I
made a video that Joe just never applied
to and disparage oh just complain that i
made a negative video about him i made a
very constructive criticism of joe
pointing out just how much money it is
to take care of one horse or to take
care of one pig for one year the costs
of running an animal sanctuary are very
very high the amount of labor required
is very very high etc etc and though
that actually sparked a whole bunch of
useful conversations because some of my
own supporters on patreon they have
volunteered in animal sanctuaries in the
past there are people who knew about the
finances you know about the labor who
knew about the veterinary care there are
all kinds of dimensions to this question
that are actually really fascinating
worth discussing with in veganism and I
wish Joe had had it in his heart at any
point to come on the channel and have a
constructive discussion about this i
would love to imagine that he has a well
informed opinion but frankly it just
seems like he never did any research all
of that is on the feasibility study side
from my perspective there are also
really interesting ethical questions
raised by the basic concept of an animal
sanctuary I actually think it's very
problematic that we presume an animal
sanctuary is something so much morally
superior to a petting zoo simply because
we say it is i actually think many of
the same moral and ethical quandaries we
get into with zoos and petting zoos
exist for animal sanctuaries also and
many vegans are in a state of blissful
ignorance about that but with all I've
ever even said those are all issues
worth discussing Joe vegan what are you
doing in the next 12 months you're not
defaming me on the internet anymore I'm
very happy about that
not doing beacon dram anymore I'm very
happy with that you've given up doing
comedy and satire in many ways I think
that's a great shame maybe your talent
in life still is comedy and satire you
just have to find a way to do comedy and
satire that doesn't involve defamation
and mean-spirited gossip you wouldn't be
the first um but when I see you talking
on your own channel about this fantasy
that in the very near future you're
going to be living in Portugal it sounds
to me like you've gone back to the same
fantasy of permanent vacation that not
too long ago made you a devout follower
of durianrider made you buy an airplane
ticket to chain my tile and it seems to
me you've just gone back to believing in
a permanent vacation but now the
permanent vacation you're fantasizing
about is that your patron subscribers
will pay for your cost of living in
Portugal and maybe they will but from my
perspective that's really very
problematic because unlike my
fundraising and my charity that was
linked to a very clear purpose it was
very clear where the money was going
what the money was doing whether or not
we win the court case everyone's
innocent til proven guilty blah blah
blah asking your patron subscribers to
pay for you to go on vacation in
Portugal is not going to save even one
animal and as I already sketched out in
earlier video the cost of saving one
horse or one Pig apart from all the
ethical problems to come up in that is
actually remarkably high and I've never
seen you sketch of a feasibility study
for how you're even going to save five
horses or five pigs or 50 cats or 500
guinea pigs and it's not too much to ask
for you Joe it's not too much especially
given my history with you it's not too
much to ask